# Open Modification Searching on Colorectal Cancer Mass Spectrometry Data
Despite many therapy options, colorectal cancer still is the fourth most deadly cancer worldwide. Colorectal cancer is best treated in its early stages, making screening the best prevention of morbidity and mortality. Although invasive, the colonoscopy is the preferred screening method. Less invasive alternatives would allow for more regular screening and screening of larger populations. A powerful tool to improve less invasive screening is proteomics. With proteomics new colorectal cancer biomarkers and new drug targets can be identified. An often-used approach to identify these new targets, is comparing cancer tissue and normal tissue with mass spectrometry (MS). Even though several post-translational modifications (PTMs), such as phosphorylation, hydroxylation and citrullination, have been proven to play an important role in colorectal cancer, they are often not considered in these MS analyses. Mostly only a few PTMs are considered during MS spectra identification because of search tool limitations. In this study, an open modification searching (OMS) approach will be used to reanalyse a colon cancer MS dataset, implicitly considering any type of modification. OMS allows a modified query spectrum to match with an unmodified library spectrum. The precursor mass difference between a matched modified query and library spectrum can be used to identify the specific PTM via database searching. Based on the identified peptides, the sample proteins will be identified and quantified with MSqRob. The aim of this study is to identify a proteomic colorectal cancer signature of differentially expressed modified and unmodified proteins, compared to normal tissue. Such a signature could improve colorectal cancer screening or identify new drug targets. 
